README.md, before:

# Vulture

A comprehensive toolkit for analyzing, decompiling, and deobfuscating Minecraft mods. Vulture picks apart mod JARs to reveal their inner workings, making it perfect for security researchers, mod developers, and anyone who needs to inspect mod behavior in a safe, isolated environment.

## Features

- **Static Analysis**: Analyze mod JAR files without execution
- **Decompilation**: Convert compiled bytecode back to readable Java source
- **Deobfuscation**: Apply MCP/ProGuard mappings to restore readable names
- **Recompilation**: Compile decompiled Java source back into JAR files
- **Security Detection**: Automatically identify suspicious patterns (webhooks, token access, network code)
- **Isolated Execution**: All tools run in Docker containers for safety
- **Multiple Decompilers**: Support for CFR, JD-CLI, and Fernflower

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Docker and Docker Compose (recommended)
- Java 8+ (optional, if not using Docker)

**Platform Support:**
- Windows (PowerShell/CMD)
- macOS (Terminal)
- Linux (Bash)

## Quick Start

### Automatic Processing (Easiest Method)

**Simply place your JAR files in the `input/` directory and run the platform-specific script:**

**macOS:**
- Double-click `start/Run Vulture (macOS).command`

**Windows:**
- Double-click `start/Run Vulture (Windows).bat`

**Linux:**
- Run: `bash start/Run\ Vulture\ \(Linux\).sh`

The script will automatically:
1. Build the Docker image (if needed)
2. Decompile all JAR files in `input/` → saves to `decompiled/`
3. Compile decompiled source back to JAR → saves to `compiled/`
4. Optionally deobfuscate (if mappings are available in `_internal/mappings/`)

### Manual Docker Usage

For advanced users who want to run tools manually:

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml build

# Run analysis on a mod
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_analyzer.py input/your_mod.jar

# Decompile a mod
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/your_mod.jar --output output/mod_name
```

**Note:** For most users, the automatic processing scripts are recommended.

### Using Local Python Environment

For local development (not recommended for most users):

**On Linux/macOS:**
```bash
# Setup virtual environment
bash scripts/linux/setup.sh  # or scripts/macos/setup.sh
source venv/bin/activate

# Analyze a mod
python src/mod_analyzer.py input/your_mod.jar

# Decompile a mod
python src/mod_deobfuscator.py input/your_mod.jar --output output/mod_name
```

**On Windows:**
```cmd
REM Setup virtual environment
scripts\windows\setup.bat
venv\Scripts\activate.bat

REM Analyze a mod
python src\mod_analyzer.py input\your_mod.jar

REM Decompile a mod
python src\mod_deobfuscator.py input\your_mod.jar --output output\mod_name
```

**Note:** Docker is the recommended method. Local setup requires Java 8+ and manual decompiler installation.

## Project Structure

```
.
├── start/                          # Launcher scripts (double-click to run!)
│   ├── Run Vulture (macOS).command
│   ├── Run Vulture (Windows).bat
│   └── Run Vulture (Linux).sh
├── input/                          # Place JAR files here
├── decompiled/                     # Decompiled Java source code
├── compiled/                        # Recompiled JAR files
├── _internal/                      # Backend files (hidden from users)
│   ├── docker/                     # Docker configuration
│   │   ├── Dockerfile
│   │   ├── docker-compose.yml
│   │   └── .dockerignore
│   └── src/                        # Source code
│       ├── mod_analyzer.py
│       ├── mod_deobfuscator.py
│       ├── mod_compiler.py
│       └── process_all.sh
├── requirements.txt                # Python dependencies
├── LICENSE                         # License file
└── README.md                       # This file
```

## Usage

### Mod Analyzer

Analyzes mod structure and detects security patterns without modifying the JAR:

```bash
# Basic analysis (inside Docker container)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_analyzer.py input/mod.jar

# Save results to JSON
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_analyzer.py input/mod.jar --json
```

The analyzer reports:
- Class and resource listings
- Mod metadata (mcmod.info)
- Security patterns (webhooks, token access, network code)
- Suspicious string patterns

### Mod Deobfuscator

Decompiles and optionally deobfuscates mods:

```bash
# Basic decompilation (inside Docker container)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar --output decompiled/mod_name

# With MCP mappings (deobfuscation)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar mappings/joined.srg --output decompiled/mod_name

# Choose specific decompiler
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar --decompiler jd-cli --output decompiled/mod_name
```

**Supported Decompilers:**
- **CFR** (default): Best accuracy, handles modern Java features
- **JD-CLI**: Fast, good for quick inspection
- **Fernflower**: IntelliJ-style output (requires manual download)

### Mod Compiler

Compiles decompiled Java source code back into JAR files:

```bash
# Compile decompiled source to JAR (inside Docker container)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_compiler.py decompiled/mod_name compiled/mod_name_recompiled.jar

# With classpath for dependencies
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_compiler.py decompiled/mod_name compiled/mod_name_recompiled.jar -cp libs/*
```

The compiler:
- Compiles all Java files in the source directory
- Creates a JAR file with proper structure
- Includes resources and manifest
- Outputs ready-to-use JAR files for Minecraft

## Obtaining Mappings

Mappings translate obfuscated Minecraft names back to readable ones. Required for proper deobfuscation.

**Minecraft uses ProGuard obfuscation**, which converts readable names to short ones:
- `Minecraft.getMinecraft()` → `a.a()`
- `Session.getToken()` → `b.c()`

Mappings reverse this process to restore readable names.

### MCPBot (Recommended for older versions)

```bash
# Download for Minecraft 1.8.9
wget http://export.mcpbot.bspk.rs/mcp_snapshot/1.8.9/mcp_snapshot-1.8.9.zip
unzip mcp_snapshot-1.8.9.zip -d mappings/
```

### Forge Mappings

Forge provides official mappings for recent versions:
- Visit https://files.minecraftforge.net/
- Download `*-mappings.zip` for your Minecraft version
- Extract to `mappings/` directory

### ProGuard Mapping File

If you have a ProGuard `mapping.txt` file:
```bash
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar mappings/mapping.txt --output output/mod_name
```

## Decompilation Quality

**What decompiles well:**
- ✅ Simple classes and methods
- ✅ Standard Java patterns
- ✅ Public APIs and interfaces

**What may not decompile perfectly:**
- ⚠️ Lambda expressions (may show as synthetic methods)
- ⚠️ Obfuscated code (variable names lost)
- ⚠️ Inline optimizations (may be restructured)

**Note:** Decompiled code may not be 100% accurate, especially with heavy obfuscation. Variable names are often auto-generated.

## Docker Details

The Docker image includes:
- Java 8 (Eclipse Temurin)
- Python 3 with required dependencies
- CFR decompiler (auto-downloaded)
- JD-CLI decompiler (auto-downloaded)
- SpecialSource (for applying mappings)

**Volume Mounts:**
- `./input` → `/workspace/input` (read-only)
- `./output` → `/workspace/output` (read-write)
- `./mappings` → `/workspace/mappings` (read-only)

**Interactive Shell:**

On Linux/macOS:
```bash
docker compose run --rm vulture
# You're now inside the container at /workspace
```

On Windows:
```cmd
docker compose run --rm vulture
REM You're now inside the container at /workspace
```

## Output Structure

When you run the automatic processing, results are saved in the `output/` directory:

```
output/
├── mod-name_analysis.json          # Analysis report (JSON format)
└── mod-name/                       # Decompiled source code
    ├── summary.txt                 # Decompilation summary
    └── [package structure]/        # Organized Java source files
        └── *.java                  # Decompiled class files
```

**Analysis JSON** contains:
- Mod metadata and file counts
- Class analysis (GUI, network, data classes)
- Security flags and suspicious patterns
- Resource listings

**Decompiled Code** includes:
- All Java source files organized by package
- Readable code structure (variable names may be auto-generated)
- Summary of decompilation process

## Security Analysis

The tools automatically detect common malicious patterns:

- Discord webhook URLs
- Token/session access patterns
- HTTP/HTTPS network requests
- Reflection usage for obfuscation
- Suspicious string patterns

Example output:
```
Security Analysis Results:
- Webhook references found in: com.example.ModClass
- Token access detected in: com.example.SessionUtils
- Network code found in: com.example.NetworkHandler
```

## Troubleshooting

**Decompiler not found**
- Ensure you're using Docker (decompilers are pre-installed)
- Or manually download decompiler JARs to `tools/` directory

**Mappings file not found**
- Download mappings using methods described above
- Place in `mappings/` directory

**Java not found (local environment)**
- Install Java 8+ or use Docker instead

**Docker build fails**
```bash
docker compose down
docker compose build --no-cache
```

## Limitations

- Decompiled code may not be 100% accurate, especially with heavy obfuscation
- Some control flow may be simplified or altered
- Variable names are often lost and regenerated
- Large mods may take several minutes to decompile

## Legal and Ethical Considerations

- Only analyze mods you own or have explicit permission to analyze
- Use findings responsibly and report vulnerabilities through proper channels
- This toolkit is for educational and security research purposes
- Respect intellectual property and licensing of analyzed mods

## Resources

- [CFR Decompiler](https://github.com/leibnitz27/cfr)
- [JD-GUI](https://java-decompiler.github.io/)
- [MCPBot](http://mcpbot.bspk.rs/)
- [SpecialSource](https://github.com/md-5/SpecialSource)
- [Minecraft Forge](https://files.minecraftforge.net/)

## License

This project is provided for educational use only. Use responsibly and ethically.

Commit message:

Reorganize structure and add interactive mode
- Moved compiled/ and decompiled/ into output/
- Created input/to_be_decompiled/ and input/to_be_compiled/
- Added interactive prompt to choose decompile/compile/both
- Updated all scripts and documentation for new structure
- Better organization: input/ → processing → output/

README.md, after:

# Vulture

A comprehensive toolkit for analyzing, decompiling, and deobfuscating Minecraft mods. Vulture picks apart mod JARs to reveal their inner workings, making it perfect for security researchers, mod developers, and anyone who needs to inspect mod behavior in a safe, isolated environment.

## Features

- **Static Analysis**: Analyze mod JAR files without execution
- **Decompilation**: Convert compiled bytecode back to readable Java source
- **Deobfuscation**: Apply MCP/ProGuard mappings to restore readable names
- **Recompilation**: Compile decompiled Java source back into JAR files
- **Security Detection**: Automatically identify suspicious patterns (webhooks, token access, network code)
- **Isolated Execution**: All tools run in Docker containers for safety
- **Multiple Decompilers**: Support for CFR, JD-CLI, and Fernflower

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Docker and Docker Compose (recommended)
- Java 8+ (optional, if not using Docker)

**Platform Support:**
- Windows (PowerShell/CMD)
- macOS (Terminal)
- Linux (Bash)

## Quick Start

### Automatic Processing (Easiest Method)

**Simply place your JAR files in the `input/` directory and run the platform-specific script:**

**macOS:**
- Double-click `start/Run Vulture (macOS).command`

**Windows:**
- Double-click `start/Run Vulture (Windows).bat`

**Linux:**
- Run: `bash start/Run\ Vulture\ \(Linux\).sh`

The script will:
1. Build the Docker image (if needed)
2. Ask you what to do:
   - **Decompile**: Process JARs from `input/to_be_decompiled/` → saves to `output/decompiled/`
   - **Compile**: Process Java source from `input/to_be_compiled/` → saves to `output/compiled/`
   - **Both**: Decompile then compile in sequence
3. Optionally deobfuscate (if mappings are available in `_internal/mappings/`)

### Manual Docker Usage

For advanced users who want to run tools manually:

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml build

# Run analysis on a mod
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_analyzer.py input/your_mod.jar

# Decompile a mod
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/your_mod.jar --output output/mod_name
```

**Note:** For most users, the automatic processing scripts are recommended.

### Using Local Python Environment

For local development (not recommended for most users):

**On Linux/macOS:**
```bash
# Setup virtual environment
bash scripts/linux/setup.sh  # or scripts/macos/setup.sh
source venv/bin/activate

# Analyze a mod
python src/mod_analyzer.py input/your_mod.jar

# Decompile a mod
python src/mod_deobfuscator.py input/your_mod.jar --output output/mod_name
```

**On Windows:**
```cmd
REM Setup virtual environment
scripts\windows\setup.bat
venv\Scripts\activate.bat

REM Analyze a mod
python src\mod_analyzer.py input\your_mod.jar

REM Decompile a mod
python src\mod_deobfuscator.py input\your_mod.jar --output output\mod_name
```

**Note:** Docker is the recommended method. Local setup requires Java 8+ and manual decompiler installation.

## Project Structure

```
.
├── start/                          # Launcher scripts (double-click to run!)
│   ├── Run Vulture (macOS).command
│   ├── Run Vulture (Windows).bat
│   └── Run Vulture (Linux).sh
├── input/                          # Input directories
│   ├── to_be_decompiled/           # Place JAR files here to decompile
│   └── to_be_compiled/             # Place Java source here to compile
├── output/                         # Output directories
│   ├── decompiled/                 # Decompiled Java source code
│   └── compiled/                   # Recompiled JAR files
├── _internal/                      # Backend files (hidden from users)
│   ├── docker/                     # Docker configuration
│   │   ├── Dockerfile
│   │   ├── docker-compose.yml
│   │   └── .dockerignore
│   └── src/                        # Source code
│       ├── mod_analyzer.py
│       ├── mod_deobfuscator.py
│       ├── mod_compiler.py
│       └── process_all.sh
├── requirements.txt                # Python dependencies
├── LICENSE                         # License file
└── README.md                       # This file
```

## Usage

### Mod Analyzer

Analyzes mod structure and detects security patterns without modifying the JAR:

```bash
# Basic analysis (inside Docker container)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_analyzer.py input/mod.jar

# Save results to JSON
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_analyzer.py input/mod.jar --json
```

The analyzer reports:
- Class and resource listings
- Mod metadata (mcmod.info)
- Security patterns (webhooks, token access, network code)
- Suspicious string patterns

### Mod Deobfuscator

Decompiles and optionally deobfuscates mods:

```bash
# Basic decompilation (inside Docker container)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar --output decompiled/mod_name

# With MCP mappings (deobfuscation)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar mappings/joined.srg --output decompiled/mod_name

# Choose specific decompiler
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar --decompiler jd-cli --output decompiled/mod_name
```

**Supported Decompilers:**
- **CFR** (default): Best accuracy, handles modern Java features
- **JD-CLI**: Fast, good for quick inspection
- **Fernflower**: IntelliJ-style output (requires manual download)

### Mod Compiler

Compiles decompiled Java source code back into JAR files:

```bash
# Compile decompiled source to JAR (inside Docker container)
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_compiler.py decompiled/mod_name compiled/mod_name_recompiled.jar

# With classpath for dependencies
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_compiler.py decompiled/mod_name compiled/mod_name_recompiled.jar -cp libs/*
```

The compiler:
- Compiles all Java files in the source directory
- Creates a JAR file with proper structure
- Includes resources and manifest
- Outputs ready-to-use JAR files for Minecraft

## Obtaining Mappings

Mappings translate obfuscated Minecraft names back to readable ones. Required for proper deobfuscation.

**Minecraft uses ProGuard obfuscation**, which converts readable names to short ones:
- `Minecraft.getMinecraft()` → `a.a()`
- `Session.getToken()` → `b.c()`

Mappings reverse this process to restore readable names.

### MCPBot (Recommended for older versions)

```bash
# Download for Minecraft 1.8.9
wget http://export.mcpbot.bspk.rs/mcp_snapshot/1.8.9/mcp_snapshot-1.8.9.zip
unzip mcp_snapshot-1.8.9.zip -d mappings/
```

### Forge Mappings

Forge provides official mappings for recent versions:
- Visit https://files.minecraftforge.net/
- Download `*-mappings.zip` for your Minecraft version
- Extract to `mappings/` directory

### ProGuard Mapping File

If you have a ProGuard `mapping.txt` file:
```bash
docker compose run --rm vulture python3 /workspace/mod_deobfuscator.py input/mod.jar mappings/mapping.txt --output output/mod_name
```

## Decompilation Quality

**What decompiles well:**
- ✅ Simple classes and methods
- ✅ Standard Java patterns
- ✅ Public APIs and interfaces

**What may not decompile perfectly:**
- ⚠️ Lambda expressions (may show as synthetic methods)
- ⚠️ Obfuscated code (variable names lost)
- ⚠️ Inline optimizations (may be restructured)

**Note:** Decompiled code may not be 100% accurate, especially with heavy obfuscation. Variable names are often auto-generated.

## Docker Details

The Docker image includes:
- Java 8 (Eclipse Temurin)
- Python 3 with required dependencies
- CFR decompiler (auto-downloaded)
- JD-CLI decompiler (auto-downloaded)
- SpecialSource (for applying mappings)

**Volume Mounts:**
- `./input` → `/workspace/input` (read-only)
- `./output` → `/workspace/output` (read-write)
- `./mappings` → `/workspace/mappings` (read-only)

**Interactive Shell:**

On Linux/macOS:
```bash
docker compose run --rm vulture
# You're now inside the container at /workspace
```

On Windows:
```cmd
docker compose run --rm vulture
REM You're now inside the container at /workspace
```

## Output Structure

When you run the automatic processing, results are saved in the `output/` directory:

```
output/
├── mod-name_analysis.json          # Analysis report (JSON format)
└── mod-name/                       # Decompiled source code
    ├── summary.txt                 # Decompilation summary
    └── [package structure]/        # Organized Java source files
        └── *.java                  # Decompiled class files
```

**Analysis JSON** contains:
- Mod metadata and file counts
- Class analysis (GUI, network, data classes)
- Security flags and suspicious patterns
- Resource listings

**Decompiled Code** includes:
- All Java source files organized by package
- Readable code structure (variable names may be auto-generated)
- Summary of decompilation process

## Security Analysis

The tools automatically detect common malicious patterns:

- Discord webhook URLs
- Token/session access patterns
- HTTP/HTTPS network requests
- Reflection usage for obfuscation
- Suspicious string patterns

Example output:
```
Security Analysis Results:
- Webhook references found in: com.example.ModClass
- Token access detected in: com.example.SessionUtils
- Network code found in: com.example.NetworkHandler
```

## Troubleshooting

**Decompiler not found**
- Ensure you're using Docker (decompilers are pre-installed)
- Or manually download decompiler JARs to `tools/` directory

**Mappings file not found**
- Download mappings using methods described above
- Place in `mappings/` directory

**Java not found (local environment)**
- Install Java 8+ or use Docker instead

**Docker build fails**
```bash
docker compose down
docker compose build --no-cache
```

## Limitations

- Decompiled code may not be 100% accurate, especially with heavy obfuscation
- Some control flow may be simplified or altered
- Variable names are often lost and regenerated
- Large mods may take several minutes to decompile

## Legal and Ethical Considerations

- Only analyze mods you own or have explicit permission to analyze
- Use findings responsibly and report vulnerabilities through proper channels
- This toolkit is for educational and security research purposes
- Respect intellectual property and licensing of analyzed mods

## Resources

- [CFR Decompiler](https://github.com/leibnitz27/cfr)
- [JD-GUI](https://java-decompiler.github.io/)
- [MCPBot](http://mcpbot.bspk.rs/)
- [SpecialSource](https://github.com/md-5/SpecialSource)
- [Minecraft Forge](https://files.minecraftforge.net/)

## License

This project is provided for educational use only. Use responsibly and ethically.
